OK, let's go ahead and save this file, and now we better go jump in to our follow model and make sure
that it has a function named create that returns a promise.
So jump into uppercase, follow J.S. below the constructor function, but above the module exports line.
Let's add a few methods.
So first, let's say uppercase followed up prototype dot create.
This should equal a function.
We want it to return a promise.
So return a new instance of promise.
Let's give it an arrow function.
Be sure to pass in parameters of resolve and reject.
Close out the arrow function.
OK, and just like within our post model and use model right here, let's run this dot cleanup and this
dot validate.
Let's make sure that we have methods with those matching names.
So maybe right above the create method we can say follow dot prototype dot cleanup that should equal
a function.
Let's also create follow dot prototype dot validate.
That should be a function.
OK, and now before we start cleaning up and validating the input, let's first go up to our constructor
function and within these parentheses, let's receive the input.
So remember, back in our controller when we called this model, we were passing it to things.
We were passing it the followed user name.
Right.
This is the username of the account that the current visitor wants to begin following, comma.
And we were also passing it, the current user ID.
So let's say author I.D. Now within the body of this constructor function, let's create properties
to store these values.
So this dot followed user name equals that parameter followed username.
Let's also say this dot author ID equals author ID while we're in this constructor function.
Let's also say this dot errors equals an empty array.
So square brackets.
Cool.
Now let's work on our cleanup method.
The only thing we need to clean or sanitize is the followed username.
So within cleanup, let's just say if parentheses curly brackets for the condition if type of and then
pass it this dot followed username.
If that does not equal a string, well then within the curly brackets let's just set it to an empty
string so we'd want to overwrite the weird or malicious value.
So this dot followed username equals an empty pair of quotes.
OK, now within VALIDATE.
Let's begin with something very simple.
Let's check to make sure that the username they want to follow actually matches with an existing account.
So you can write a comment here to yourself.
If you wanted to stay organized and say followed username must exist in database to check if it exists.
Let's do this.
Let's create a variable, let's say let followed account equal and then let's talk to our Mongo DB database.
Let's look within our users collection and see if there is a document with this matching username.
Now, in order to do that, in order to talk to our database, we need to go up to the very top of this
file and import or require in our database file.
Let me show you what I mean.
So up at the very top of our model, let's say const users collection equals and then require.
We want to give it a file path.
So let's say dot, dot, slash to move up out of the models folder.
And then in that root folder of our project, we have a file named DB.
This file actually exports a Mongo DB client, not the database itself.
So at the end of this line, let's also call DOT DB to select the actual database and then after that
we can call DOT collection and the collection that we are interested in is users.
While we're at it, let's go ahead and copy and paste and duplicate this line and on this new copy,
let's change it from user's collection to follows collection.
Then at the very end, the collection that we'd be interested then instead of users is follows.
Cool.
Now let's jump back down to our validate method.
And remember, we want to check to see if the username exists.
Right.
You should only be able to follow the username for an account that is in our database.
So we're creating a variable let followed account, and we just want to pull in the Mongo DB document
that represents that matching user based on their user name.
So let's say users collection and then use the Mongo DB method name to find one.
Give it an object to describe what we're looking for.
And we're looking for a document where the user name property, so user name Colen is a match with our
this dot followed user name.
Cool.
Now this Mongo DB method is going to return a promise.
So right before users collection here, we can just say, oh wait, we know that we can only use this
within an async function.
So right after prototype dot cleanup equals right before function, say async.
OK, now below this let followed account line, let's just write an if statement if parentheses curly
brackets after the if block.
Let's also add and else block for the condition within these parentheses.
Let's just say followed account because if we are able to find the document in the user's collection
that matches that username, well that's great else.
Otherwise we have a problem.
So in the else block, let's say this DOT errors push, let's push a message onto our array of errors
and say you cannot follow a user that does not exist.
On the other hand, if we do find a matching account based on that username, let's store the ID of
that document.
Right.
Because in most apps you're allowed to change your username.
We haven't built that functionality into our app.
But the idea is that when it comes to storing in the database, which user is following which other
user?
We want to use their ID, something that is permanent, not their username, but it's OK to look a user
up by their username.
So if there's a matching account, let's just say this dot followed ID equals the document that we found
in the database.
So followed account dot underscore id.
OK, for now this is the only validation check we're going to worry about.
We can circle back in the later lesson and add additional validation checks.
But for now, let's just scroll down to our create method.
This is where we're calling clean up and calling validate.
Let's be sure to add a wait before validate because now it's an asynchronous function that's going to
take a minute to complete.
OK, and then right below this, let's just set up an if else.
So if parentheses curly brackets also add an else block and let's just check to see if the errors is
empty or not.
So this dot errors dot length.
This would evaluate to true as long as there were one or more items in that array to check for the opposite
of that, we can say exclamation point here.
OK, so if there are no errors, this is where we would actually want to store the follow data in the
database or else this would mean there are errors.
Let's take care of that first.
So this is where we would want our promise to reject let's reject the value of our errors.
So this dot errors within the if block.
This is where we are ready to actually store something in our database.
So let's do this.
Let's say follows collection dot insert one.
Right.
We want to insert one document into the collection parentheses to create an object that represents this
item.
Let's give it to fields or to properties.
So followed ID is the first.
That would be this dot followed id the ID of the user account that you want to begin following comma.
The other property or field would be named author.
I'd write the user that's doing the following.
So Colon.
And let's set this to a new instance of the Mongo DB object IDE data type within these parentheses we
just pass it.
This dot author.
I'd cool.
Now let's remember that this Mongo DB method of insert one is going to return a promise and it's going
to take a moment to finish.
So at the start of this line, let's say a wait now since we're using the await feature here and here,
we want to make sure that the inclosing function is asynchronous.
So within the parentheses for Promis before our parameters here, let's just say async.
OK, and finally, after we wait for this, insert one database action to complete right below that
line, our promise is.
Ready to resolve.
Cool.
Just one more detail before we test this out.
We better go up to the top of this file and make sure that object I.D. is pointing towards something
or that a variable with this name exists.
Let me show you what I mean.
So back up at the very top of this file, maybe right below when we create our collection variables,
let's say const object ID equals and then just require in the Mongo DB package.
But in this case, we're not interested in the entire package.
Just dot object ID.
Cool, let's go ahead and save this and test it out.
Oops.
Looks like we actually have an error within our validate function.
We are using the await feature, but we forgot to add async right before this function.
Let's give that another save and now back in the browser, be sure to refresh, so the form for the
follow button has the updated action value.
OK, and in this window, I'm logged in as the Brad user.
And if I want to start following the bark's a lot user.
Let's click on follow.
Cool, it took me back to the Bark's lot profile, successfully followed Bachs lot, now the way that
we can test things to see if this is actually working is to jump into our Mongo DB Atlus account.
From the collection screen, make sure you're on your complex app database and then if we click, refresh.
Now you can see there's a new collection named Follows, if I click on to that cool, there's one document
this document represents the Brat Account or the author ID following the bark's a lot of count or the
followed ID cool.
That's going to bring this lesson to a close in our next lesson.
Not only will we add additional validation checks, but we'll also set things up so that once you're
following a user, this button should now be a red button that says stop following.
Right.
The page should be aware that I'm following and it should give me an equal but opposite action to take.
Now, setting this up should be a lot of fun.
So let's keep things rolling and I'll see you then.